README.md, before:

# CloudSweeper — HouseKeeper v2

_New and improved housekeeper, now in Go._

## Setup
To setup HouseKeeper to work with your account, you must create a role in AWS to allow access. This is easily done using the `--setup` flag of housekeeper. It will handle everything for you. Then all you need to do is to make sure you're in the list of accounts that will be checked. Reach out to the QA team if you have any questions.

## Usage
The program relies on having a list of account to actually check. This list can either be provided manually, or the python script in `accounts_retriever.py` can be used. This script will get an up-to-date mapping from the Metavisor repository on Gerrit. 

The recommended way of using Housekeeper is through Docker. For the most common use cases, there are make targets (take a look in the `Makefile`).

## Modes
Below are the different modes that housekeeper runs in.

### Review - `make review`
The review target will look for really old resources that housekeeper is too unsure about to automatically cleanup. These resources are filtered based on some rules:
- Resource is older than 30 days
- A whitelisted resource is older than 6 months
- An instance marked with do-not-delete is older than a week

The account owner will get an email with these resources listed.

### Warning - `make warn`
The warning target will look for resources that are about to be automatically cleaned up by housekeeper (not resources that the owner explicitly said should be deleted) and warn the owner about this.

### Marking - `make mark`
Marking will go through resources in the a users account and look for those that match a certain set of rules. If a resource matches, it will be marked for deletion. Deletion is set a few days in the future, so the user has time to whitelist anything that shouldn't be deleted. Resources are matched using the following rules:
- unattached volumes > 30 days old
- unused/unaccessed buckets > 120 days old
- non-whitelisted AMIs > 6 months
- non-whitelisted snapshots > 6 months
- non-whitelisted volumes > 6 months
- untagged resources > 30 days (this should take care of instances)

The resources will be marked with a tag with key `housekeeper-delete-at` and the value be a RFC3339 encoded timestamp.

### Cleanup - `make cleanup`
The cleanup target will look through resources and delete those that should be cleaned up. This is determined by looking at tags of the resources. There are three requirements for this deletion:
#### Lifetime
A resource can have a lifetime. This is specified with the tag `Key: housekeeper-lifetime, Value: days-X`, where `X` is the number of days to keep the resource after its creation date. If the current date is after a resource's creation date + the lifetime it will get cleaned up.
#### Expiry
A resource can have an expiry date. This is specified with the tag `Key: housekeeper-expiry, Value: YYYY-MM-DD`, where `YYYY-MM-DD` e.g. `2018-01-29`. If the current date is after the expiry date, the resource will be cleaned up.
#### Delete at
If housekeeper has automatically marked a resource for deletion, it will have a tag with the key `housekeeper-delete-at`, and the value will be an RFC3339 encoded timestamp. If the current time is after that timestamp, the resource will get cleaned up.

Commit message:

Improve setup
Make setup more straightforward and add secondary method (using
a bash script)

Change-Id: Ibf7ec0227a4e2e699722e9b77347519a7baa44d6
Jira: None

README.md, after:

# CloudSweeper — HouseKeeper v2

_New and improved housekeeper, now in Go._

## Setup
To setup HouseKeeper to work with your account, you must create a role in AWS to allow access. This is easily done using the `--setup` flag of housekeeper. It will handle everything for you. Then all you need to do is to make sure you're in the list of accounts that will be checked. Reach out to the QA team if you have any questions.

It's also possible to run `aws_setup.sh`, if you have the `aws` CLI installed and properly setup.

## Usage
The program relies on having a list of account to actually check. This list can either be provided manually, or the python script in `accounts_retriever.py` can be used. This script will get an up-to-date mapping from the Metavisor repository on Gerrit. 

The recommended way of using Housekeeper is through Docker. For the most common use cases, there are make targets (take a look in the `Makefile`).

## Modes
Below are the different modes that housekeeper runs in.

### Review - `make review`
The review target will look for really old resources that housekeeper is too unsure about to automatically cleanup. These resources are filtered based on some rules:
- Resource is older than 30 days
- A whitelisted resource is older than 6 months
- An instance marked with do-not-delete is older than a week

The account owner will get an email with these resources listed.

### Warning - `make warn`
The warning target will look for resources that are about to be automatically cleaned up by housekeeper (not resources that the owner explicitly said should be deleted) and warn the owner about this.

### Marking - `make mark`
Marking will go through resources in the a users account and look for those that match a certain set of rules. If a resource matches, it will be marked for deletion. Deletion is set a few days in the future, so the user has time to whitelist anything that shouldn't be deleted. Resources are matched using the following rules:
- unattached volumes > 30 days old
- unused/unaccessed buckets > 120 days old
- non-whitelisted AMIs > 6 months
- non-whitelisted snapshots > 6 months
- non-whitelisted volumes > 6 months
- untagged resources > 30 days (this should take care of instances)

The resources will be marked with a tag with key `housekeeper-delete-at` and the value be a RFC3339 encoded timestamp.

### Cleanup - `make cleanup`
The cleanup target will look through resources and delete those that should be cleaned up. This is determined by looking at tags of the resources. There are three requirements for this deletion:
#### Lifetime
A resource can have a lifetime. This is specified with the tag `Key: housekeeper-lifetime, Value: days-X`, where `X` is the number of days to keep the resource after its creation date. If the current date is after a resource's creation date + the lifetime it will get cleaned up.
#### Expiry
A resource can have an expiry date. This is specified with the tag `Key: housekeeper-expiry, Value: YYYY-MM-DD`, where `YYYY-MM-DD` e.g. `2018-01-29`. If the current date is after the expiry date, the resource will be cleaned up.
#### Delete at
If housekeeper has automatically marked a resource for deletion, it will have a tag with the key `housekeeper-delete-at`, and the value will be an RFC3339 encoded timestamp. If the current time is after that timestamp, the resource will get cleaned up.
